h1. odkmaker — wysiwyg web-based xforms editor for the odk subset

h2. Usage

Go to http://build.opendatakit.org/ to give odkmaker a spin.


Carl's instructions for dummies--
Running your own.
1)  Install Ruby 1.8.6+.  In MacOSX you get everything you need from XCode.  Not sure on other platforms.
2)  Install Tokyo Cabinet (from source).  http://1978th.net/tokyocabinet/spex-en.html#installation
3)  Install the following required gems.  From the command line:  sudo gem install [gemname]
 * ffi
 * rufus-tokyo
 * rack
 * sinatra
 * json
 * warden
 
4)  Optional, but not if you want it to be easy to run locally.  Get another gem.
 * shotgun
 
4)  In a terminal, go to the base directory (something like /projects/build.opendatakit/).  There should be a file called 'config.ru'
5)  edit odkbuild_server.rb.  Change the line near the top that says Sinatra::Default to Sinatra::Application.
5a)  I have no idea if that's a change we can make permanently.
6)  type:  shotgun config.ru
7)  Point your browser to http://localhost:[port] where port is probably 9393.

run it.


Clint's "instructions"---
h2. Running

odkmaker is built on the Ruby Rack server stack, so look up how to run Rack servers, and apply that to config.ru. Phusion Passenger works.

For a quickstart type local dev run, get the @shotgun@ gem, make sure you have all the required stuff, as well as a webserver gem such as @mongrel@, and then type @shotgun config.ru@.

h2. Dependencies

* Ruby 1.8.6+
* Tokyo Cabinet (install from source)

h2. Required Gems

* ffi
* rufus-tokyo
* rack
* sinatra
* json
* warden
